Oracle feature (#75)
autonity/docs.autonity.org: content/docs/concepts/oracle-server/_index.md

---
title: "Autonity Oracle Server (AOS)"
linkTitle: "Oracle Server"
weight: 4
description: >
  Oracle server software features
---

AOS is the reference implementation of the Autonity Oracle Protocol and the oracle server software run by validator nodes in an Autonity network. It is composed of off- and on-chain components.

## Features

### Core logic

> - _Core_, the core off-chain Autonity Oracle Server codebase managing interactions with the external price data source providers via a data adaptor 'plugin' architecture, and the on-chain Oracle Contract via the connected Autonity Go Client node. Core executes aggregation of data from external sources ("_L1 aggregation_"), calculates a median price, and submits price report transactions on-chain to the Oracle Contract.

Reviewer: should we use abbreviations more frequently in this section?  AOS, AGC, AOC, etc, and IMHO language is a bit more abstract. It is just an opinion though. for e.g suggested change in networking para:
> For networking, the system uses WebSocket and HTTP connections. HTTP RPC calls are made to configured data source providers, and a WebSocket connection is established with the AGC validator to (a) submit price report transactions and (b) listen for on-chain Oracle Contract events.

Author: Yes, you're right. I've edited _networking_ and the other entries in the _Core logic_ entry to simplify per your suggestion.  Commit [dd108fb](https://github.com/autonity/docs.autonity.org/pull/75/commits/dd108fb92d91f6ca01d4f2661fb3892410ad1f2a).

Author: @vpiyush does this edit address your comment, please?

> - _Autonity Oracle Contract_, the oracle protocol contract logic deployed to the ledger by AGC. The Oracle Contract manages the computation of median price data for currency pair price reports submitted by oracle servers. The contract provides operations for: computing median price ("_L2 aggregation_") from submitted price report transactions in oracle voting rounds, providing median price data via interface, and managing the currency-pair symbols for which price data is provided by the Autonity oracle network. See [Autonity Oracle Contract](/concepts/architecture/#autonity-oracle-contract) and concept [Client](/concepts/client/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- _Autonity Oracle Contract_, the oracle protocol contract logic deployed to the ledger by AGC. The Oracle Contract manages the computation of median price data for currency pair price reports submitted by oracle servers. The contract provides operations for: computing median price ("_on-chain aggregation_") from submitted price report transactions in oracle voting rounds, providing median price data via interface, and managing the currency-pair symbols for which price data is provided by the Autonity oracle network. See [Autonity Oracle Contract](/concepts/architecture/#autonity-oracle-contract) and concept [Client](/concepts/client/).
```

Reviewer 2: @cmjc

## Features

### Core logic

- _Core_, the core off-chain Autonity Oracle Server (AOS) codebase. Core manages interactions with external price data source providers via data adaptor 'plugins' and the connected Autonity Go Client (AGC) validator node AOS serves. Core executes aggregation of data from external sources ("_L1 aggregation_"), calculates an aggregated median price, and submits price report transactions on-chain to the Oracle Contract.
- _Autonity Oracle Contract_, the oracle protocol contract logic deployed to the ledger by AGC. The Oracle Contract manages the computation of median price data for currency pair price reports submitted by oracle servers. The contract provides operations for: computing median price ("_L2 aggregation_") from submitted price report transactions in oracle voting rounds, providing median price data via interface, and managing the currency-pair symbols for which price data is provided by the Autonity oracle network. See [Autonity Oracle Contract](/concepts/architecture/#autonity-oracle-contract) and concept [Client](/concepts/client/).

> - _Networking_, the system uses WebSocket and HTTP connections. HTTP RPC calls are made to configured data source providers, and a WebSocket connection is established to the AGC validator to (a) submit price report transactions and (b) listen for on-chain Oracle Contract events.

Reviewer 3: The RPC calls to configured data source might have different network protocols, it may have HTTP, HTTPS, or even Web Socket, the plugin should implement this adaptation protocols, it depends on the provider's scheme.

Author: Thanks! Edited to clarify in commit [3b4b466](https://github.com/autonity/docs.autonity.org/pull/75/commits/3b4b466b587da4cd3507a0ffbf068f0b9191b6e8).
